---
title: "FileUploader"
date: 2018-06-03T12:46:34+00:00
weight: 0
class: \Gibbon\FileUploader
generated: true
---

## FileUploader

File Upload Class



* Full name: \Gibbon\FileUploader

{{< api-example >}} 



### Methods

- [__construct](#__construct)
- [getIllegalFileExtensions](#getillegalfileextensions)<small> — Get the list of hard-coded illegal extensions.</small>
- [upload](#upload)<small> — Upload a file from a submitted form, checking file extensions and generating a randomized name.</small>
- [uploadFromPost](#uploadfrompost)<small> — Convenience function for handling file uploads from $_FILES array. Also handles file upload errors from POST.</small>
- [getUploadsFolderByDate](#getuploadsfolderbydate)<small> — Get an absolute uploads folder path based on UNIX timestamp.</small>
- [getRandomizedFilename](#getrandomizedfilename)<small> — Randomize the provided filename by adding an alphanumeric string and ensuring uniqueness.</small>
- [getFileExtensions](#getfileextensions)<small> — Lazy load an array of the File Extensions from DB. Optionally loads specific types of extensions (accepts array or CSV list).</small>
- [getFileExtensionsCSV](#getfileextensionscsv)<small> — Get the valid extensions as CSV; helper method for validation fields.</small>
- [setFileExtensions](#setfileextensions)<small> — Set the file extensions from an array. Overrides the list normally retrieved from the database.</small>
- [isFileTypeValid](#isfiletypevalid)<small> — Checks the extension of the filename provided against the list of valid extensions. Handle extensions without full filename.</small>
- [setFileSuffixType](#setfilesuffixtype)
- [getLastError](#getlasterror)<small> — Return the last error generated by the uploader.</small>




### __construct



```php
FileUploader::__construct( \Gibbon\Contracts\Database\Connection $pdo, \Gibbon\session $session )
```









---

### getIllegalFileExtensions

Get the list of hard-coded illegal extensions.

```php
static FileUploader::getIllegalFileExtensions( ): array
```



* This method is **static**.


**Return Value:**
`array`  



---

### upload

Upload a file from a submitted form, checking file extensions and generating a randomized name.

```php
FileUploader::upload( string $filename, string $sourcePath, string $destinationFolder = '' ): string|boolean
```






**Return Value:**
`string|boolean`  Resulting path of the uploaded file, FALSE on failure.



---

### uploadFromPost

Convenience function for handling file uploads from $_FILES array. Also handles file upload errors from POST.

```php
FileUploader::uploadFromPost( array $file, $filenameChange = '' ): string|boolean
```






**Return Value:**
`string|boolean`  



---

### getUploadsFolderByDate

Get an absolute uploads folder path based on UNIX timestamp.

```php
FileUploader::getUploadsFolderByDate( string $timestamp ): string|boolean
```






**Return Value:**
`string|boolean`  Returns the path, FALSE on failure.



---

### getRandomizedFilename

Randomize the provided filename by adding an alphanumeric string and ensuring uniqueness.

```php
FileUploader::getRandomizedFilename( string $filename, $destinationFolder ): string|boolean
```






**Return Value:**
`string|boolean`  Returns the filename, FALSE on failure.



---

### getFileExtensions

Lazy load an array of the File Extensions from DB. Optionally loads specific types of extensions (accepts array or CSV list).

```php
FileUploader::getFileExtensions( $type = '' ): array
```






**Return Value:**
`array`  



---

### getFileExtensionsCSV

Get the valid extensions as CSV; helper method for validation fields.

```php
FileUploader::getFileExtensionsCSV( ): array
```






**Return Value:**
`array`  



---

### setFileExtensions

Set the file extensions from an array. Overrides the list normally retrieved from the database.

```php
FileUploader::setFileExtensions( array $extensions )
```









---

### isFileTypeValid

Checks the extension of the filename provided against the list of valid extensions. Handle extensions without full filename.

```php
FileUploader::isFileTypeValid( string $filename ): boolean
```






**Return Value:**
`boolean`  



---

### setFileSuffixType



```php
FileUploader::setFileSuffixType( $value )
```









---

### getLastError

Return the last error generated by the uploader.

```php
FileUploader::getLastError( ): integer
```






**Return Value:**
`integer`  



---

